[Music]
so how would you like to go fast without
increasing your speed here's everything
you need to know about intermittent
fasting boy this kind of describes my
commute at rush hour go fast then slow
fast then slow intermittent fasting get
it okay we're not talking about
stop-and-go driving here nope
intermittent fasting or if' is the most
popular weight loss program today even
celebrities like Hugh Jackman Chris
Hemsworth and Benedict Cumberbatch have
hopped on the if' bandwagon dr. Kevin
Gendreau a primary care doctor claimed
that he lost 125 pounds in 18 months
thanks to intermittent fasting before I
F he weighed 300 pounds whoa
it seems that intermittent fasting is a
true miracle worker so what is the
secret behind if' that makes it so
effective
we add brightside unravel the truth
behind this weight loss craze with a
nagging question in our minds is it
possible for the human body to endure
long hours of fasting on a daily basis
hey let's perform a little sleuthing
first who created intermittent fasting
fasting in general is an age-old
practice but it has nothing to do with
your dream of achieving a beachbody
physique actually you've been kind of
doing if' all your life better that you
eat breakfast has in break fast Greek
heavy weights such as Pythagoras
Socrates and Plato fasted to purify
their spirit and mind some major
religions exercise fasting to strengthen
their faith Mahatma Gandhi fasted 17
times during his campaign for Indian
independence
he not only shed some pounds but also
shed the British government but when did
fasting gain recognition as a means of
shedding a few pounds well it was
popularized by the American writer Upton
Sinclair in the 1900s
Sinclair practice juice cleansing and
fasting at the same time in August 2012
fasting gained recognition from the
health and fitness community
thanks to the influence of a doctor and
journalist Michael Mosley he published a
book about it in January 2013 entitled
the fast diet now before we move on we
need to clarify misconceptions about
intermittent fasting
first of all if' is often thought to be
a type of diet with intermittent fasting
you're not watching what you eat instead
you have to watch when you eat it's not
a diet plan but an eating pattern we'll
explain this later in detail for now
let's move on to the next if' myth the
second misconception about if' is that
you must starve yourself so let's look
at the definition of starving from the
merriam-webster dictionary to suffer or
die from lack of food on the other hand
also taken from the same dictionary
fasting means to eat no food for a
period of time with if' you still have
to eat and drink but it should be time
restricted
that's why intermittent fasting is
sometimes called time restricted eating
the third and last misconception that
holds back the health buffs from trying
this controversial weight loss program
is the safety and health concerns
associated with intermittent fasting
let's get to the bottom of this by
discussing how intermittent fasting
works we mentioned earlier in the video
that intermittent fasting is an eating
pattern with if' your entire day or week
is divided into two parts the eating
period and the fasting period during the
eating period you can eat a regular meal
so yeah you don't have to starve
yourself well in the fasting period
you're not allowed to consume any food
nope not even a single morsel can touch
your lips but there is an exception to
this rule during fasting you can drink
but only water tea or black coffee no
sugar or creamer plays in some cases you
can eat a few hundred calories or a
fruit and veggie combo while you're in
fasting mode
how can you split your day or week into
an eating period and a fasting period
can it be two hours fasting and 22 hours
eating yeah nice try buddy but no
it doesn't work that way that is an
intermittent fasting it has been
cheating which is a whole nother video
not to worry
here are some eating patterns you can
follow the sixteen to eight pattern also
known as lean gains was invented by
fitness expert Martin Burkham lean gains
is an if' schedule that's good for
beginners no kidding and it involves
fasting for 14 to 16 hours a day the
remaining six to eight hours are for the
eating period the 5 to 2 pattern the
fast diet is a method created by British
doctor and journalist Michael Mosley yup
the same guy who revived the popularity
of intermittent fasting this is lighter
than the lean gains protocol because you
can eat 500 to 600 calories or calorie
rich foods during the two days of
fasting and then you can eat normally
for 5 days eat stop eat was discovered
by fitness expert Brad Pihl on with this
intermittent fasting eating pattern you
have to fast for 24 hours once or twice
a week for example you can start your
fast on Monday at 12 p.m. and ended on
Tuesday the next day at 12 p.m.
alternate day fasting as the name
suggests is where you fast every other
day when in a fasting period you can
either eat 500 to 600 calories or
nothing at all the warrior diet was
popularized by fitness expert or ehof
Meckler contrary to its scary name it
requires fasting all day but you can
still eat small portions of fruits and
vegetables the eating period is from 6
p.m. to 10 p.m. and you can eat one huge
meal
the primary concern about intermittent
fasting is the insane amount of time
required for the fasting period we're
wired to eat breakfast lunch dinner and
a couple of snacks every day how would
your body feel if you skipped breakfast
or lunch you might experience hunger
weakness dizziness or vomiting you might
also have sudden mood swings from
frustration to irritation these are
normal bodily reactions during the first
weeks or months of
if' because the body is still adjusting
but what can you really achieve with
fasting over the course of time your
body will eventually overcome the
side-effects under normal circumstances
your body gets energy from the food you
eat this energy is stored in your liver
and muscles how about when you're in a
fasting period your body gets its energy
from its last reserve fat the fat stored
in your body is burned to convert it to
energy the longer you fast the more fat
is burned in the process what are the
other health benefits besides getting
rid of the fat you wanted to flush out
from your body well it can prevent type
2 diabetes and promote insulin
resistance it is good for the heart it
may prevent cancer it improves brain
function it promotes longevity moreover
it simplifies your lifestyle because you
don't need to plan cook and pack three
to six meals a day you can save money
and time when buying and preparing food
hey that means fewer dishes to wash up
too although intermittent fasting seems
promising this weight loss solution is
not for everyone if you really want to
try it
we suggest consulting your doctor first
especially in these cases diabetes low
blood pressure underweight pregnant
breastfeeding or trying to conceive
eating disorder history in addition
children and teens are advised not to
try if' because at this stage of their
development they need more energy than
adults you should also remember that you
can't lose weight through intermittent
fasting alone since you're always
fasting your body needs proper
nourishment from healthy foods like
dairy lean proteins nuts and seeds
veggies whole grains and unprocessed and
whole foods it's also safe to exercise
while fasting but we recommend doing it
after your body has adjusted and is not
experiencing side effects like hunger or
weakness it's tough to lose weight
regardless of the slimming program you
go with sacrifices must be made
saying goodbye to your favorite greasy
foods or not eating from time to time
now keep in mind that you need to
consult your doctor before starting
anything intermittent fasting might work
for others but it might not be right for
you it's not because you can't keep away
from that bag of chips or you don't have
enough self-control it might have
something to do with your body's
Constitution hey don't despair there are
more weight loss programs besides if'
that you can mix and match what's
important is that it should work for you
in the long run so how about you have
you tried intermittent fasting do you
know a better way to lose weight we'd
love to know your thoughts give us a
thumbs up if this video enlightened you
about if' share this video to help
others on their weight-loss journey and
don't forget to subscribe to our channel
to join us back here on the bright side
of life
[Music]